sqs: service docs (#342)
alphagov/paas-tech-docs: source/documentation/deploying_services/sqs.md

An example `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable:

```
{
 "VCAP_SERVICES": {
  "aws-sqs-queue": [
   {
    "binding_name": null,
    "credentials": {
     "aws_access_key_id": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "aws_region": "eu-west-2",
     "aws_secret_access_key": "XXXX/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "primary_queue_url": "https://XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "secondary_queue_url": "https://XXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    },
    "instance_name": "my-queue",
    "label": "aws-sqs-queue",
    "name": "my-queue",
    "plan": "standard",
    "provider": null,
    "syslog_drain_url": null,
    "tags": [
     "sqs"
    ],
    "volume_mounts": []
   }
  ]
 }
}
```

You must pass credentials from your `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable to
your AWS software development kit (SDK). Use the appropriate [Amazon SDK
documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/tools/#sdks) to do this.

You should use the provided `primary_queue_url` in AWS API calls to make use of
the queue.

Your app may also connect to a second isolated queue using the `secondary_queue_url`
value, however we recommend ignoring this value unless you are configuring a
dead-letter queue. See [configuring a dead letter queue][].

> ### Connect to an SQS queue from outside of the GOV.UK PaaS

Author: Should we remove this "connect from outside" section for SQS for now? 

... I'm tempted to not document this yet as this feels like a bug not a feature that you can connect to the queue from outside the PaaS like this... we should make a decision on what default behaviour we want before documenting it

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether it's either, I recall the S3 broker had some of the plumbing restricting this (which we didn't keep). I would suggest not documenting it for now.

The maximum allowed retention period is 14days.

To configure the time that messages are kept on the queue we can update the
service, specifying the period in seconds:

```
cf update-service SERVICE_NAME -c '{"message_retention_period": 345600}'
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is the descriptive name for this SQS queue and `345600` is
a period in seconds to retain messages for.

#### Configuring a dead-letter queue

Sometimes, your application may not be able to process a message from your
primary queue. When this happends it is useful to move messages onto a
secondary queue so they can investigated later without interfering with the
correct operation of your primary queue.

When your service is configured in this pattern we call the secondary queue a
"dead-letter" queue. To setup this pattern we can configure the number of times
a message is allowed to appear on the primary queue before it is redirected to
the secondary queue.

Run:

```
cf update-service SERVICE_NAME -c '{"redrive_max_receive_count": 3}'
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is the descriptive name for this SQS queue and `3` is the
number of attempts a message should have on the primary queue before being

> redirected to the secondary queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
redirected to the secondary queue. This parameter can also be passed at service creation time.
```

# Amazon SQS

> Amazon SQS provides data object storage through a web service interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon SQS provides "Standard" (at-least-once delivery, best-effort ordering) and First-In-First-Out queues.
```

To provide any feedback on this feature, contact the GOV.UK PaaS team at
[gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk).

<h2 id="set-up-the-service">Set up the service</h2>

### Provision an Amazon Web Service SQS queue

Creating a service instance provisions an Amazon Web Service (AWS) Simple Queue
Service (SQS) queue.

The name of the service overall is `aws-sqs-queue`. There are two types of plan
available for the service named `standard` and `fifo`.

- `standard` plans configure queues that provide at-least-once delivery,
which means that each message is delivered at least once.
- `fifo` (first-in-first-out) plans configure queues that provide [exactly-once
processing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/FIFO-queues.html#FIFO-queues-exactly-once-processing),
which means that each message is delivered once and remains available until a

> consumer processes it and deletes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consumer processes it and deletes it.
```

AWS SQS queues can be configured to move messages that can not be successfully
processed by your application on a secondary queue, known as a dead-letter

> queue, letting you isolate  problematic messages to determine why their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
queue, letting you isolate problematic messages to determine why their
```

> processing doe not succeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processing did not succeed.
```

#### Provision a standard AWS SQS queue

Use a Standard queue when the order of the items on your queue is not
important and when your application can tolerate occasional duplication of
messages.

Run the following in the command line to provision a Standard AWS SQS queue:

```
cf create-service aws-sqs-queue standard SERVICE_NAME
```

> It will take between 1 and 5 minuites to set up the service instance. To check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will take between 1 and 5 minutes to set up the service instance. To check
```

its progress run:

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue.

#### Provision a FIFO AWS SQS queue

Use a FIFO (first-in-first-out) queue when the order of operations and events
is critical, or where duplicates can't be tolerated.

Run the following in the command line to provision a FIFO AWS SQS queue:

```
cf create-service aws-sqs-queue fifo SERVICE_NAME
```

It will take between 1 and 5 minuites to set up the service instance. To check
its progress run:

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue.

### Bind an AWS SQS queue to your app

You must bind the SQS queue to your app so you can get credentials to use the
[AWS SQS API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/sqs/) to read
from and write to the queue.

You can bind an SQS queue using the command line or the manifest file.

Run the following to bind an SQS queue to your app:

```
cf bind-service APP_NAME SERVICE_NAME
```

> It will take between 1 and 5 minuites to setting the binding. To check its progress, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will take between 1 and 5 minutes to set up the binding. To check its progress, run:
```

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where:

- `APP_NAME` is the name of a deployed instance of your app, as specified in your app's manifest or push command
- `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue

You can use the [app's manifest](https://docs.cloud.service.gov.uk/deploying_apps.html#deploying-public-apps)
to bind an SQS queue to the app with default read and write permissions only.
It will bind automatically when you next deploy your app. An example manifest:

```
--
applications:
- name: APP_NAME
  services:
  - SERVICE_NAME
```

> By default, you can only [connect to an SQS queue from your GOV.UK PaaS-hosted app](#connect-to-an-sqs-queue-from-your-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To [connect to an SQS queue from outside the GOV.UK PaaS](#connect-to-an-sqs-queue-from-outside-of-the-gov-uk-paas), you must create a service key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Connect to an SQS queue from your app

Restart your app to populate your `VCAP_SERVICES` [environment variable](/deploying_apps.html#system-provided-environment-variables)
with the credentials needed to connect to the SQS queue.

An example `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable:

```
{
 "VCAP_SERVICES": {
  "aws-sqs-queue": [
   {
    "binding_name": null,
    "credentials": {
     "aws_access_key_id": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "aws_region": "eu-west-2",
     "aws_secret_access_key": "XXXX/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "primary_queue_url": "https://XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "secondary_queue_url": "https://XXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    },
    "instance_name": "my-queue",
    "label": "aws-sqs-queue",
    "name": "my-queue",
    "plan": "standard",
    "provider": null,
    "syslog_drain_url": null,
    "tags": [
     "sqs"
    ],
    "volume_mounts": []
   }
  ]
 }
}
```

You must pass credentials from your `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable to
your AWS software development kit (SDK). Use the appropriate [Amazon SDK

> documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/tools/#sdks) to do this.

Reviewer: I think this wording makes it sound like using the right AWS SDK will make the SDK know how to deal with VCAP_SERVICES

You should use the provided `primary_queue_url` in AWS API calls to make use of
the queue.

> Your app may also connect to a second isolated queue using the `secondary_queue_url`

Author: need a better word than "isolated"

Reviewer: separate?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your app may also connect to a second, separate, queue using the `secondary_queue_url`
```

Run the following in the command line to unbind the SQS queue from the app:

```
cf unbind-service APP_NAME SERVICE_NAME
```

It can take between 1 and 5 minutes to remove the binding. To check its progress, run:

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where:

- `APP_NAME` is the name of a deployed instance of your app, as specified in your app's manifest or push command
- `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue

If you unbind the SQS queue from your app but do not delete the queue, that
queue will persist even after you delete your app. You can re-bind or
re-connect to the queue in future.

### Updating an AWS SQS queue

#### Setting a message retention period

Messages that have not been consumed by your application will eventually expire
and be removed from the queue.

The default rention period is 4 days.
The maximum allowed retention period is 14days.

To configure the time that messages are kept on the queue we can update the
service, specifying the period in seconds:

```
cf update-service SERVICE_NAME -c '{"message_retention_period": 345600}'
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is the descriptive name for this SQS queue and `345600` is

> a period in seconds to retain messages for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a period in seconds to retain messages for. This parameter can also be passed at service creation time.
```

#### Configuring a dead-letter queue

Sometimes, your application may not be able to process a message from your
primary queue. When this happends it is useful to move messages onto a
secondary queue so they can investigated later without interfering with the
correct operation of your primary queue.

When your service is configured in this pattern we call the secondary queue a
"dead-letter" queue. To setup this pattern we can configure the number of times
a message is allowed to appear on the primary queue before it is redirected to
the secondary queue.

Run:

```
cf update-service SERVICE_NAME -c '{"redrive_max_receive_count": 3}'
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is the descriptive name for this SQS queue and `3` is the
number of attempts a message should have on the primary queue before being
redirected to the secondary queue.

When you bind an app to an AWS SQS queue service instance, you will find credentials for two unique queue urls:

- `primary_queue_url` is the URL for the main queue

> - `secondary_queue_url` is the URL for the secondary queue, now configured as a dead-letter queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `secondary_queue_url` is the URL for the secondary queue, now acting as a dead-letter queue
```

### Delete an SQS queue

Run the following in the command line to delete the SQS queue:

```
cf delete-service SERVICE_NAME
```

> It can take between 1 and 5 minuites to delete the service instance. To check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can take between 1 and 5 minutes to delete the service instance. To check
```

# Amazon SQS

> Amazon SQS provides "standard" (at-least-once delivery, best-effort ordering) and first-in-first-out queues.

Reviewer 2: Would be good to provide links for all these concepts

Author: These aren't really concepts that have much follow up information, however I have removed them from this section so now they only appear in the section that links off to the AWS docs, so that can hopefully serve for more of a deep dive into the different types.

To provide any feedback on this feature, contact the GOV.UK PaaS team at
[gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk).

<h2 id="set-up-the-service">Set up the service</h2>

### Provision an Amazon Web Service SQS queue

Creating a service instance provisions an Amazon Web Service (AWS) Simple Queue
Service (SQS) queue.

The name of the service overall is `aws-sqs-queue`. There are two types of plan

> available for the service named `standard` and `fifo`.

Reviewer 2: Need a comma before 'named'

> The name of the service overall is `aws-sqs-queue`. There are two types of plan
> available for the service named `standard` and `fifo`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The name of the service overall is `aws-sqs-queue`. There are two types of plan
available for the service, `standard` and `fifo`.
```

> - `standard` plans configure queues that provide at-least-once delivery,

Reviewer 2: Bullets should follow on from the lead-in sentence, so we should probably not use bullets here

Author: I have kept the bullets but tweaked this paragraph so that it better conforms to the standard

Reviewer 2: yes, this is better

which means that each message is delivered at least once.
- `fifo` (first-in-first-out) plans configure queues that provide [exactly-once
processing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/FIFO-queues.html#FIFO-queues-exactly-once-processing),
which means that each message is delivered once and remains available until a
consumer processes it and deletes it.

AWS SQS queues can be configured to move messages that cannot be successfully

> processed by your application on a secondary queue, known as a dead-letter

Reviewer 2: We should add a link for 'dead-letter queue'

Author: done

queue, letting you isolate problematic messages to determine why their
processing did not succeed.

#### Provision a standard AWS SQS queue

Use a standard queue when the order of the items on your queue is not
important and when your application can tolerate occasional duplication of
messages.

Run the following in the command line to provision a standard AWS SQS queue:

```
cf create-service aws-sqs-queue standard SERVICE_NAME
```

It will take between 1 and 5 minutes to set up the service instance. To check
its progress run:

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue.

#### Provision a FIFO AWS SQS queue

Use a FIFO (first-in-first-out) queue when the order of operations and events

> is critical, or where duplicates can't be tolerated.

Reviewer 2: We should use 'cannot' rather than 'can't'

> is critical, or where duplicates can't be tolerated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is critical, or where duplicates cannot be tolerated.
```

Run the following in the command line to provision a FIFO AWS SQS queue:

```
cf create-service aws-sqs-queue fifo SERVICE_NAME
```

> It will take between 1 and 5 minuites to set up the service instance. To check

Reviewer 2: You have a typo in 'minutes'

> It will take between 1 and 5 minuites to set up the service instance. To check

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will take between 1 and 5 minutes to set up the service instance. To check
```

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue.

### Bind an AWS SQS queue to your app

You must bind the SQS queue to your app so you can get credentials to use the
[AWS SQS API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/sqs/) to read
from and write to the queue.

You can bind an SQS queue using the command line or the manifest file.

Run the following to bind an SQS queue to your app:

```
cf bind-service APP_NAME SERVICE_NAME
```

It will take between 1 and 5 minutes to set up the binding. To check its progress, run:

```
cf service SERVICE_NAME
```

where:

- `APP_NAME` is the name of a deployed instance of your app, as specified in your app's manifest or push command
- `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue

When binding an SQS service to your app, you have the option of restricting the
queue permissions given to that app. You can control this using `bind-service`'s `-c`
flag to set the bind parameters `access_policy` JSON key, for example:

```
cf bind-service APP_NAME SERVICE_NAME -c '{"access_policy": "consumer"}'
```

The currently supported `access_policy` values are:

> - `full`, the default, full access permissions

Reviewer 2: these bullet points need to follow on grammatically from the lead-in sentence, so need some tweaking

- `producer` is appropriate for an app which will be sending messages to the queue,
  but does not need to be able to read or delete messages.
- `consumer` is appropriate for apps which will be reading and possibly deleting messages,

>   but do not need to be able to send messages to the queue.

Reviewer 2: Bullet points should not have full stops :)

> The currently supported `access_policy` values are:
> 
> - `full`, the default, full access permissions
> - `producer` is appropriate for an app which will be sending messages to the queue,
>   but does not need to be able to read or delete messages.
> - `consumer` is appropriate for apps which will be reading and possibly deleting messages,
>   but do not need to be able to send messages to the queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The currently supported `access_policy` values are:

- `full`, which means the default, full access permissions
- `producer`, which is appropriate for an app that will be sending messages to the queue,
  but does not need to be able to read or delete messages
- `consumer`, which is appropriate for an app that will be reading and possibly deleting messages,
  but does not need to be able to send messages to the queue
```

```

### Connect to an SQS queue from your app

Restart your app to populate your `VCAP_SERVICES` [environment variable](/deploying_apps.html#system-provided-environment-variables)
with the credentials needed to connect to the SQS queue.

An example `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable:

```
{
 "VCAP_SERVICES": {
  "aws-sqs-queue": [
   {
    "binding_name": null,
    "credentials": {
     "aws_access_key_id": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "aws_region": "eu-west-2",
     "aws_secret_access_key": "XXXX/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "primary_queue_url": "https://XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
     "secondary_queue_url": "https://XXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    },
    "instance_name": "my-queue",
    "label": "aws-sqs-queue",
    "name": "my-queue",
    "plan": "standard",
    "provider": null,
    "syslog_drain_url": null,
    "tags": [
     "sqs"
    ],
    "volume_mounts": []
   }
  ]
 }
}
```

You must pass credentials from your `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable to
your AWS software development kit (SDK). Use the appropriate [Amazon SDK
documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/tools/#sdks), and extract the
credentials from VCAP_SERVICES to provide to the SDK. You can usually do this

> either by setting environment variables such as AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY or AWS_REGION, or by providing the SDK with the right static credentials

Reviewer 2: Should these be in code blocks like VCAP_SERVICES is?

Author: yes they should...done

function call or data as part of your app.

You should use the provided `primary_queue_url` in AWS API calls to make use of
the queue.

Your app may also connect to a second, separate, queue using the `secondary_queue_url`
value, but we recommend ignoring this value unless you are configuring a

> dead-letter queue. See [configuring a dead letter queue][].

Reviewer 2: Link seems broken

Author: yep ... fixed

# Amazon SQS

Amazon SQS provides "Standard" (at-least-once delivery, best-effort ordering) and First-In-First-Out queues.

To provide any feedback on this feature, contact the GOV.UK PaaS team at
[gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk).

<h2 id="set-up-the-service">Set up the service</h2>

### Provision an Amazon Web Service SQS queue

Creating a service instance provisions an Amazon Web Service (AWS) Simple Queue
Service (SQS) queue.

The name of the service overall is `aws-sqs-queue`. There are two types of plan
available for the service named `standard` and `fifo`.

- `standard` plans configure queues that provide at-least-once delivery,
which means that each message is delivered at least once.
- `fifo` (first-in-first-out) plans configure queues that provide [exactly-once
processing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/FIFO-queues.html#FIFO-queues-exactly-once-processing),
which means that each message is delivered once and remains available until a
consumer processes it and deletes it.

> AWS SQS queues can be configured to move messages that can not be successfully

Author: Think we should link to the section below about configuring dead-letter queue from here somewhere

# Amazon SQS

Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) offers a durable hosted queue that lets you
build decoupled distributed software components.

> To provide any feedback on this feature, contact the GOV.UK PaaS team at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a beta service which is currently in a testing phase. If you would like to test the service, contact the GOV.UK PaaS team at [gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk). 
```

> To provide any feedback on this feature, contact the GOV.UK PaaS team at

Reviewer 2: Do we still need this line about feedback, or is the one about testing the service supposed to replace it?

Author: I don't think we need both

> [gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

- `APP_NAME` is the name of a deployed instance of your app, as specified in your app's manifest or push command
- `SERVICE_NAME` is a unique descriptive name for this SQS queue

When binding an SQS service to your app, you have the option of retricting the
queue permissions given to that app. You can control this using `bind-service`'s `-c`
flag to set the bind parameters `access_policy` json key, for example:

```
cf bind-service APP_NAME SERVICE_NAME -c '{"access_policy": "consumer"}'
```

The currently supported `access_policy` values are:

- `full`, the default, full access permissions
- `producer` is appropriate for an app which will be sending messages to the queue,
  but doesn't need to be able to read or delete messages.

> - 'consumer' is appropriate for apps which will be reading and possibly deleting messages,

Author: ```suggestion
- `consumer` is appropriate for apps which will be reading and possibly deleting messages,
```
